# Overview

A complete Pulsar cluster is composed of Pulsar broker, necessary ZooKeeper and BookKeeper services. The specific deployment methods can be divided into two types, they are:

1. **Standalone**, all services are started on one host, easy to deploy, suitable for local development and testing, and can also be used in some production environments.

2. **Cluster**, the service is scattered on different hosts, the deployment is slightly complicated, but it has the characteristics of high availability, load balancing, etc. It is suitable for the production environment.

## 1. Prerequisite

1. Java 8
2. Linux operating system

## 2. Download the Pulsar 2.7.0 installation package

Download from Pulsar official website [download page](https://pulsar.apache.org/download/)

or

Use the `wget` command to download:

``` bash
$ wget https://archive.apache.org/dist/pulsar/pulsar-2.7.0/apache-pulsar-2.7.0-bin.tar.gz
```

After downloading the compressed file, unzip it to **"/data/projects/fate/common"** and use the `cd` command to enter the target directory:

``` bash
$ tar -xvfz apache-pulsar-2.7.0-bin.tar.gz -C /data/projects/fate/common
$ cd /data/projects/fate/common/apache-pulsar-2.7.0
```

## 3. Start the Standalone Pulsar Service

1. Edit the "conf/standalone.conf" file and modify it as follows:

``` bash

# Enable to delete inactive topic
brokerDeleteInactiveTopicsEnabled=true

# Setting time interval for scanning of inactive topic
brokerDeleteInactiveTopicsFrequencySeconds=36000

# Setting number of connection for replication
replicationConnectionsPerBroker=4

# Modify the frame size of bookkie to 128MB, the default size is 5MB
nettyMaxFrameSizeBytes=134217728

# Modify the size of the pulsar message capacity to 128MB, the default is 5MB
maxMessageSize=134217728

# Default per-topic backlog quota limit(-1 means no limit)
backlogQuotaDefaultLimitGB=-1
```
For more details about the configuration, please refer to the file mentioned above.

2. Edit the "conf/pulsar_env.sh" file and modify it as follows：

```bash
# Extra options to be passed to the jvm
PULSAR_MEM=${PULSAR_MEM:-"-Xms4g -Xmx4g -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=8g"}
```

3. Start the pulsar service

``` bash
$ bin/bin/pulsar-daemon start standalone -nss
```

The running log is in the logs directory under the pulsar software deployment directory  .

4. Stop the pulsar service

When the pulsar cluster is no longer needed, the following command can be used to stop it.

``` bash
$ bin/pulsar-daemon stop standalone
```

When the data generated by the pulsar service is no longer used, the user can remove "apache-pulsar-2.7.0/data" directory.

For more information about the configuration of the standalone version of Pulsar, please refer to the official Pulsar document [Set up a standalone Pulsar locally](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/standalone/)

## 4. Start the cluster version of Pulsar cluster

For Pulsar service deployment in cluster mode, please refer to the official document [Deploying a multi-cluster on bare metal](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/deploy-bare-metal-multi-cluster), Among them, [Deployment Configuration store](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/deploy-bare-metal-multi-cluster/#deploy-the-configuration-store) can be skipped.
