# Example Usage Guide.

We provide here examples of FATE jobs, including FATE-Pipeline scripts,
DSL conf files, and modeling quality comparison tasks

We suggest that user use example-runner tool
[FATE-Test](../doc/api/fate_test.md).

Also, for smoother interaction with FATE-Flow, we suggest that user
install Flow-Client with
[FATE-Client](../doc/api/fate_client/pipeline.md).

To quickly start model training and predictions using dsl & pipeline,
please refer toï¼š

1.  [Pipeline train and predict quick tutorial](../doc/tutorial/pipeline/pipeline_tutorial_hetero_sbt.ipynb).
2.  [DSL Conf train and predict quick tutorial](../doc/tutorial/dsl_conf/dsl_conf_tutorial.md).

Below lists included types of examples.

## FATE-Pipeline

To enhance usability of FATE, starting at FATE-v1.5, FATE provides
python APIs. User may develop federated learning models conveniently
with [FATE-Pipeline](../doc/api/fate_client/pipeline.md). We provide a host of Pipeline
examples for each FATE module and a quick start guide for Pipeline
[here](./pipeline)

## DSL

DSL is the first method FATE provides for constructing federated
modeling jobs. For more information, please refer this
[guide](../doc/tutorial/dsl_conf_v2_setting_guide.md) on DSL.

Upgraded DSL(DSL v2) by FATE-v1.5 comes with the following major
features:

1.  Predictions DSL may now be configured through FATE-Flow cli. Please
    note that with new DSL training job will no longer automatically
    form prediction DSL; user needs to first form DSL manually with
    FATE-Flow cli before running prediction task.
2.  New components may now be added to prediction DSL; for instance,
    `evaluation` module may be added to prediction task.
3.  Standardize style of `role_parameter` and `algorithm_parameter`.

For DSL v2 examples, please refer [dsl/v2](./dsl/v2). For examples of
the older version, please refer [dsl/v1](./dsl/v1). This is the
"federatedml-1.x-examples" in older version. Please note that starting
at version 1.6, FATE may no longer support DSL v1.

### Cross Validation Task

Starting at version 1.6, cross validation tasks can output fold history
data when `output_fold_history` is set to True. Output data contains
either prediction `score` or original `instance` value. Please note that
the `score` output from cross validation tasks may not be input to
Evaluation module. All testsuites of modeling modules include demos on
setting [cv
parameters](../python/federatedml/param/cross_validation_param.py).

## Benchmark Quality

Starting at FATE-v1.5, FATE provides modeling quality verifier for
comparing modeling quality of centralized training and FATE federated
modeling. We have provided quality comparison scripts for
the following common models:

- heterogeneous scenario:
    - LogisticRegression([benchmark\_quality/hetero\_lr](./benchmark_quality/hetero_lr))
    - LinearRegression([benchmark\_quality/hetero\_linear_regression](./benchmark_quality/hetero_linear_regression))
    - SecureBoost([benchmark\_quality/hetero\_sbt](./benchmark_quality/hetero_sbt))
    - FastSecureBoost([benchmark\_quality/hetero\_fast\_sbt](./benchmark_quality/hetero_fast_sbt))
    - NN([benchmark\_quality/hetero\_nn](./benchmark_quality/hetero_nn))
- homogeneous scenario:
    - LogisticRegression([benchmark\_quality/homo\_lr](./benchmark_quality/homo_lr))
    - SecureBoost([benchmark\_quality/homo\_sbt](./benchmark_quality/homo_sbt))
    - NN([benchmark\_quality/homo\_nn](./benchmark_quality/homo_nn)

Starting at v1.6, benchmark quality supports matching metrics from the
same script. For more details, please refer to the
[guide](../doc/api/fate_test.md#benchmark-quality).


## Benchmark Performance

FATE-Test also provides performance benchmark for FATE federated
modeling. We include benchmark test suites for the following common models:

  - Hetero Logistic Regression([benchmark\_performance/hetero\_lr](./benchmark_performance/hetero_lr)),
  - Hetero SecureBoost([benchmark\_performance/hetero\_sbt](./benchmark_performance/hetero_sbt)),
  - Hetero SSHE LR([benchmark\_performance/hetero\_fast\_sbt](./benchmark_performance/hetero_sshe_lr)),
  - Hetero Intersect:
    - [benchmark\_performance/intersect_single](./benchmark_performance/intersect_single)
    - [benchmark\_performance/intersect_multi](./benchmark_performance/intersect_multi)
  
For more details, please refer to the
[guide](../doc/api/fate_test.md#benchmark-performance).


## Upload Default Data

FATE provides a collection of publicly available data at [data](./data)
directory, along with a utility script for uploading all data sets. User
may use the provided script to upload all pre-given data, or modify the
corresponding configuration file for uploading arbitrary data. Please
refer [scripts](./scripts/README.rst) for details.

Alternatively, user may use [FATE-Test](../doc/api/fate_test.md#data)
for uploading data.

## Toy Example

FATE provides simple toy job for quick experiment when user developing
FATE modules or testing for deployment. For details, please refer
[toy\_example](./toy_example/README.md).

## Min-test

Min-test is used for deployment testing and quick modeling demo.
Min-test includes tasks of hetero Logistic Regression and hetero
SecureBoost. User only needs to configure few simple parameters to run a
full modeling job with FATE. Please refer
[min\_test\_task](./min_test_task/README.rst) for instructions.
